# CS340

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?


  I think writing programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable have a lot to do with cleanliness and wielding good organization skills. Being able to go back to a section of code at a later time and pick up where you left off means you organized it well. Anyone should be able to look at your code and understand it well. Clear naming conventions and thorough documentation help with well written programs. The CRUD Python module was written in an organized way with clear reusable functions. It was a modular approach and simplified testing. These same CRUD function could be used again in other databases and could easily be added to for other projects. It was a very customizable experience. 
  When I think of approaching a problem as a computer scientist, I think about breaking the problem down into smaller pieces first. I think problems can be daunting until you consider them with a different frame of mind. I think approaching problems and solving them in small parts is key. I have found that testing frequently after making small changes helps a great deal. I started with the CRUD functions and made sure each one worked well before adding on other aspects to the project. I tested those thoroughly and then moved on to the dashboard later. I would definitely continue to use this approach on future projects. 
  Computer Scientists research and solve problems by implementing and designing software solutions. Programmers are able to help a lot of people by creating new solutions to every day problems. Helping Grazioso Salvare with their software allowed them to find many more animals that they can train for search-and-rescue. It is going to help a lot of people just by creating this software for them. The filter option will allow them to save people quicker. This project shows how computer science can make a difference in the world.

